TT-16547 docs: Add v5.12.0 observability features (#1464)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: api-management/traces.mdx

Author: ```suggestion
- **tracecontext**: Supports the [W3C Trace Context](https://www.w3.org/TR/trace-context/) format. This is the default.
```

Author: ```suggestion
- **b3**: Serializes `SpanContext` to/from the B3 multi-header format. Find out [more about b3 propagation](https://github.com/openzipkin/b3-propagation).
- **custom**: Reads the trace ID from a custom header (set via `custom_trace_header`) and writes it back to that same custom header only. No standard headers are written to upstream.
- **composite**: Reads the trace ID from a custom header (priority) or standard headers (fallback), and writes **both** the custom header and the standard `traceparent` header to upstream.
```

- `tyk.api.id`: API ID.
- `tyk.api.path`: API listen path.
- `tyk.api.tags`: If tagging is enabled in the API definition, the tags are added here.
- `tyk.api.apikey.alias`: The identity alias of the authenticated client. Populated for APIs using JWT authentication or multi-auth (compliant mode).

<Note>
`tyk.api.apikey.alias` is available from Tyk Gateway v5.12.0.

> </Note>

Author: ```suggestion
```

- **Environment Variable**: Use `TYK_GW_OPENTELEMETRY_CONTEXTPROPAGATION` to specify the context propagator type.
- **Configuration File**: Navigate to the `opentelemetry.context_propagation` field in your configuration file to set your preferred option.

> If your upstream systems use a proprietary correlation header (for example, `X-Correlation-ID`), set `custom_trace_header` to that header name. The gateway will extract the trace ID from this header and propagate it as a standard `traceparent` header to upstream services.

Author: ```suggestion
#### Custom Trace Header

If your upstream systems use a proprietary correlation header (for example, `X-Correlation-ID`), set `custom_trace_header` to that header name. The behavior depends on `context_propagation`:
```

```json
{
  "opentelemetry": {
    "enabled": true,
    "context_propagation": "tracecontext",
    "custom_trace_header": "X-Correlation-ID"
  }
}
```

<Note>
`custom_trace_header` is available from Tyk Gateway v5.12.0.

> </Note>

Author: ```suggestion
```

- **Environment Variable**: Use `TYK_GW_OPENTELEMETRY_SAMPLING_PARENTBASED`.
- **Configuration File**: Update the `opentelemetry.sampling.parent_based` field in the configuration file.

#### Span Processor Configuration

When using `span_processor_type: batch` (the default), you can tune the batch processor to prevent span loss under high traffic. Use the `span_batch_config` block to configure the following fields:

- `max_queue_size` — maximum number of spans buffered before export (default: `2048`)
- `max_export_batch_size` — maximum number of spans per export batch (default: `512`)
- `batch_timeout` — seconds to wait before forcing an export (default: `5`)

```json
{
  "opentelemetry": {
    "enabled": true,
    "span_processor_type": "batch",
    "span_batch_config": {
      "max_queue_size": 8192,
      "max_export_batch_size": 1024,
      "batch_timeout": 3
    }
  }
}
```

Increase `max_queue_size` and `max_export_batch_size` in high-throughput environments where spans are being dropped before they can be exported.

<Note>
`span_batch_config` is available from Tyk Gateway v5.12.0.

> </Note>

Author: ```suggestion
```
